---
title: "1 - GitHub/Blog Creation"
date: 2025-01-07
---
**GitHub Blog Setup**

In short, click a link, follow some easy steps, and within an hour you have a blog setup through github.io.

In long...

Using this link: https://github.com/skills/github-pages 
Github provides an easy 5 step process laying out how to enable, create, and customize your own repo/blog using Github _pages_.
Steps found here : https://github.com/skills/github-pages/tree/main/.github/steps

Going through the settings of the Github repo enlightened on the features that can be toggled on and off for increased functionality and repo security.
Used Yaml for establishing the theme of the _pages_ with basic customization through the config.yml file. The following parameters were supplied.
                    theme: minima
                    title: Knowledge Collection
                    author: lilshepit
                    description: Learning/Projects/Misc
Once configurations were in place, I created a post and commited that chnage. To push the change, you need to run a pull request, merging the chnages you made into the main branch. If there are no conflicts between the branches, the merge completes and populates the main branch with the chnages. After a few seconds, you can refresh your github.io webpage and see the chnages.

**Going forward**
Increase my knowledge and understanding of github.
Further update my repositories and blog through the configuration files(Better understand YAML).
As Projects are done, create folders to store scripts, notes, queries, and any other relevant information.

This is the end of my first offical writeup. Thank you:)
  It will get better
    Should*
  


